SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

| Version | Supported          |
| ------- | ------------------ |
| 1.0.x   | :white_check_mark: |

## Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a security vulnerability in pyre, please report it responsibly:

1. **Do not** open a public issue
2. Email details to the repository owner via GitHub private message
3. Include steps to reproduce and potential impact

We will respond within 72 hours and work with you to address the issue.

## Security Best Practices

### API Key Management

pyre handles sensitive Palo Alto firewall API keys. Follow these practices:

**Recommended:**
- Use environment variables for API keys (`api_key_env` in config)
- Set restrictive permissions on `~/.pyre.yaml` (`chmod 600`)
- Use separate API keys per firewall with minimal required permissions
- Rotate API keys periodically

**Avoid:**
- Storing API keys directly in configuration files
- Committing credentials to version control
- Sharing API keys between users

### Configuration Example

```yaml
firewalls:
  prod-fw01:
    host: firewall.example.com
    api_key_env: PROD_FW01_API_KEY  # Read from environment
    insecure: false                  # Verify TLS certificates
```

### TLS Certificate Verification

- Keep `insecure: false` (default) for production firewalls
- Only use `insecure: true` for development/lab environments with self-signed certificates
- Consider importing firewall certificates to your trust store instead of disabling verification

### Network Security

- pyre communicates with firewalls over HTTPS (port 443) and SSH (port 22)
- Ensure network policies allow only authorized hosts to connect to firewall management interfaces
- Consider using jump hosts or VPNs for remote management

## Dependencies

pyre uses these third-party libraries:

- `github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea` - TUI framework
- `github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles` - TUI components
- `github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss` - Styling
- `gopkg.in/yaml.v3` - YAML parsing

We monitor dependencies for vulnerabilities and update promptly when issues are disclosed.

## Audit Logging

pyre does not maintain its own audit logs. Firewall API calls are logged by PAN-OS according to your firewall's logging configuration. Review firewall logs to audit pyre usage.

Commit message:

feat(tui): add 10 navigation and view enhancements
* feat(tui): add 10 navigation and view enhancements

  - Add --user flag for interactive password login without API key
  - Add Shift+Tab for backward navigation through views
  - Add insecure checkbox toggle in login form
  - Add breadcrumb navigation format (e.g., "Analyze/Sessions")
  - Add on-demand session detail fetch with 'd' key
  - Add ARP entries display in interface detail panel
  - Add BGP/OSPF neighbor status to network dashboard
  - Add encap/decap traffic stats for IPSec tunnels
  - Fix tunnel state detection to include "established" state
  - Remove counts from view titles and key hints from navbar

* feat(config): refactor to host-keyed connections with connection hub UI

  BREAKING CHANGE: Config schema changed from named firewalls to host-keyed connections

  - Rename FirewallConfig to ConnectionConfig with host as map key
  - Replace `firewalls:` with `connections:` and `default_firewall:` with `default:`
  - Add connection hub view for managing multiple saved connections
  - Add connection form for quick connect, add, and edit modes
  - Add state persistence (~/.pyre/state.json) for last connected time/user
  - Add -c flag for connecting to named connections from CLI
  - Improve PAN-OS API compatibility with multiple XML parsing approaches
  - Add routing table view
  - Add SSH setup documentation

  The config file format changes from:
    default_firewall: my-fw
    firewalls:
      my-fw:
        host: 10.0.0.1

  To:
    default: 10.0.0.1
    connections:
      10.0.0.1:
        insecure: true

* docs: update docuementation removing ssh and api keys.

* fix: fix linting errors.

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

| Version | Supported          |
| ------- | ------------------ |
| 1.0.x   | :white_check_mark: |

## Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a security vulnerability in pyre, please report it responsibly:

1. **Do not** open a public issue
2. Email details to the repository owner via GitHub private message
3. Include steps to reproduce and potential impact

We will respond within 72 hours and work with you to address the issue.

## Security Best Practices

### API Key Management

pyre handles sensitive Palo Alto firewall API keys. Follow these practices:

**Recommended:**
- Use environment variables for API keys (`PYRE_API_KEY`)
- Use the `--api-key` flag for one-off connections
- Use separate API keys per firewall with minimal required permissions
- Rotate API keys periodically

**Avoid:**
- Storing API keys in configuration files (not supported)
- Committing credentials to version control
- Sharing API keys between users

### Configuration Example

```yaml
connections:
  10.0.0.1:
    insecure: false  # Verify TLS certificates
```

Then provide the API key via environment:

```bash
export PYRE_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
pyre -c 10.0.0.1
```

### TLS Certificate Verification

- Keep `insecure: false` (default) for production firewalls
- Only use `insecure: true` for development/lab environments with self-signed certificates
- Consider importing firewall certificates to your trust store instead of disabling verification

### Network Security

- pyre communicates with firewalls over HTTPS (port 443)
- Ensure network policies allow only authorized hosts to connect to firewall management interfaces
- Consider using jump hosts or VPNs for remote management

## Dependencies

pyre uses these third-party libraries:

- `github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea` - TUI framework
- `github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles` - TUI components
- `github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss` - Styling
- `gopkg.in/yaml.v3` - YAML parsing

We monitor dependencies for vulnerabilities and update promptly when issues are disclosed.

## Audit Logging

pyre does not maintain its own audit logs. Firewall API calls are logged by PAN-OS according to your firewall's logging configuration. Review firewall logs to audit pyre usage.
